VC DWN guide (#1095)
TBD54566975/developer.tbd.website: site/docs/web5/build/verifiable-credentials/handling-vcs-in-dwn.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# VCs in DWNs

In this guide, we'll cover how to write a [Verifiable Credential (VC)](/docs/web5/learn/verifiable-credentials) to a [Decentralized Web Node (DWN)](/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-web-nodes), how to query and read a VC that is stored in a DWN, and lastly how to parse the VC into a format that your application can work with.

## Storing VC in DWN

To store a VC in a DWN, you need to create a record with the VC data. The VC should already be [created](/docs/web5/build/verifiable-credentials/fan-club-vc#create-credential) and in a [signed JWT format](/docs/web5/build/verifiable-credentials/fan-club-vc#sign-credential). This is what that would look like:

```javascript
const { record } = await web5.dwn.records.create({
  data: signedVcJwt,
  message: {
    schema: 'EmploymentCredential',
    dataFormat: 'application/vc+jwt',
  },
});

> // (optional) immediately send record to your remote DWNs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// (optional) immediately send record to remote DWNs
```

> const { status } = await record.send(yourDid);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const { status } = await record.send(userDid);
```

```

> `signedVcJwt` represents a signed VC JWT. The `schema` property should be the same as the VC type, and `dataFormat` specifies the format of the VC, this will always be `application/vc+jwt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`signedVcJwt` represents a signed VC JWT. The `schema` property should be the same as the VC type, and `dataFormat` specifies the format of the VC which is `application/vc+jwt`.
```

## Reading VC from DWN

Once the VC is stored, you can retrieve it from the DWN using the `recordId` that was created:

```javascript
let { record: readRecord } = await web5.dwn.records.read({
  message: {
    filter: {
      recordId: record.id, // this is the record ID that was logged above
    },
  },
});

const signedVcJwt = await readRecord.data.text();
```

> This will return your signed JWT string. If you don't have access to your VC's `recordId` you can query your DWN for the record:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will return the signed JWT as a string. If you don't have access to the VC's `recordId`, you can query the DWN for the record:
```

## Querying VC From DWN

```javascript
const response = await web5.dwn.records.query({
  from: userDid,
  message: {
    filter: {
      schema: 'EmploymentCredential',
      dataFormat: 'application/vc+jwt',
    },
  },
});

const signedVcJwt = await response[0].data.text();

> console.log('\nVC Record: \n' + signedVcJwt + '\n');

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```

> This will log the first record matching the filters you specified, `schema` and `dataFormat`. Keep in mind that this will access your VC that is now a signed JWT string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will log the first record matching the filters you specified, `schema` and `dataFormat`. Keep in mind that this will access the VC as a JWT string.
```

## Parsing a VC JWT

> After retrieving your signed JWT string, if you would like to turn your VC back into a readable JSON object you can use the `parseJwt()` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After retrieving the signed JWT, you cann convert the VC back into a readable JSON object with the `parseJwt()` method:
```

---
title: Store, Query, Read & Parse VCs in Your DWN
hide_title: true
---

# Handling VCs in Your DWN

In this guide, we'll cover how to write a [Verifiable Credential (VC)](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/learn/verifiable-credentials) to your [Decentralized Web Node (DWN)](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-web-nodes), how to read it from your DWN, how to query it from your DWN, and lastly how to parse it.

## Storing VC in DWN

To store a VC in your DWN, you need to create a record with the VC data. The VC should already be [created](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/build/verifiable-credentials/fan-club-vc#create-credential) and in a [signed JWT format](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/build/verifiable-credentials/fan-club-vc#sign-credential). This is what that would look like:

```javascript
const { record } = await web5.dwn.records.create({
  data: signedVcJwt,
  message: {
    schema: 'EmploymentCredential',
    dataFormat: 'application/vc+jwt',
  },
});

console.log('\nVC Record ID: ' + record.id + '\n');

// (optional) immediately send record to your remote DWNs
const { status } = await record.send(yourDid);
```

> `signedVcJwt` represents your signed JWT VC. The `schema` property needs to be the name of the [constructor class](https://developer.tbd.website/docs/web5/build/verifiable-credentials/fan-club-vc#model-credential) you used when creating your VC, and `dataFormat` specifies the format of the VC, this will always be `application/vc+jwt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`signedVcJwt` represents a signed VC JWT. The `schema` property should be the same as the VC type, and `dataFormat` specifies the format of the VC, this will always be `application/vc+jwt`.
```

It's not the constructor (constructor not even needed, really). It's the vc type from the actual VC itself:

```js
vcDataModel: {
  '@context': [ 'https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1' ],
  type: [ 'VerifiableCredential', 'SwiftiesFanClub' ], // <- one of these
  id: 'urn:uuid:daa5ff01-9b7d-485b-9410-22a42952d46c',
  issuer: 'did:key:z6Mkn4w6nSaWe4fjNJRvaHZwFnMm5VexvjzDeozEu2G7jC34',
  issuanceDate: '2023-12-14T08:20:41Z',
  credentialSubject: {
    id: 'did:key:z6MkjGSeekPGE9QfczHWyW8v2ZzJU68kqSHzV7L2dmQyuyDu',
    level: 'Stan',
    legit: true
  }
}
```

> ## Reading VC from DWN

Reviewer: left a comment on the hackmd to change the order of these sections. first show how to query for a VC from a DWN, then show how to read its data

> Once your VC is stored, you can retrieve it from the DWN using the `recordId` that was created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the VC is stored, you can retrieve it from the DWN using the `recordId` that was created:
```

```javascript
let { record: readRecord } = await web5.dwn.records.read({
  message: {
    filter: {
      recordId: record.id, // this is the record ID that was logged above
    },
  },
});

const signedVcJwt = await readRecord.data.text();

> console.log('\nVC Record: \n' + readVcJwt + '\n');

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```

This will return your signed JWT string. If you don't have access to your VC's `recordId` you can query your DWN for the record:

## Querying VC From DWN

```javascript
const response = await web5.dwn.records.query({

>   from: yourDid,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from: userDid,
```

  message: {
    filter: {
      schema: 'EmploymentCredential',
      dataFormat: 'application/vc+jwt',
    },
  },
});

const signedVcJwt = await response[0].data.text();
console.log('\nVC Record: \n' + signedVcJwt + '\n');
```

This will log the first record matching the filters you specified, `schema` and `dataFormat`. Keep in mind that this will access your VC that is now a signed JWT string.

## Parsing a VC JWT

After retrieving your signed JWT string, if you would like to turn your VC back into a readable JSON object you can use the `parseJwt()` method:

```javascript
const parsedVc = VerifiableCredential.parseJwt(signedVcJwt);

> console.log(JSON.stringify(parsedVc));

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
